
I like the progress of your thesis.
 
Concerning the results that you send in the PDF, I have the following questions:
 
llm_aug_cw - 0.563 - 0.756 - 0.646 - +0.005
 
Do I understand things right: You are adding the 2100 LLM labeled pairs with positive rate 30% to the 2500 pairs that you used for training before and afterwards train roberta-base on the complete 4600 pairs set? Is this correct? If yes, I’m surprived that the F1 hardly changes, which it should. Could you please clarify on what you train and if you train on the 4600 pairs investigate why the change is only so small.  Do both Roberta model make similar errors? What is the overlap of the errors made by the two models?
 
I like your Augmented Dataset Characteristics analysis which looks nicely balanced for WDC Products, but reveals that your DBLP dataset is missing hard negatives which also explains why the augmentation has a negative impact on the performance.
 
Could you please explicitly search for hard negatives which could for instance be papers with the same title which were first published at a workshop or conference and in a journal afterwards. Here the authors and the title would be nearly the same only the venue and the year would differ. Please add such and other corner cases to your trainingset and check is this turns the results positive (despite being close to the ceiling).
 
It is interesting that  2c. Overlap between augmentation strategies shows that the overlap between the augmentation sets is so small. But this also means that you can likely still increase your results by training Roberta on the union of all your augmentation sets or combinations of them. Please test this and tell me whether the downstream results improve.
 
Another question concerning your “Qualitative Error Analysis”. Which similarity metric do you use for the analysis?
 
“In this thesis's WDC Products setting (full train split, 2,500 pairs base), the same saturation effect was not present — the model already had sufficient coverage of common patterns.”
This is an interesting finding. Could you please further investigate this by reducing the size of your base training set (to half and to 0.25%) and afterwards combine the smaller sets with the LLM augmented sets to check if your base set really had sufficient coverage.
 
I like your idea of balancing the Web augmented training set. In addition to reducing the number of positives please also try to increase the number of hard negatives by: Given one product, ask an LLM for the names of similar but different products. Use these names to retrieve additional offers via Tavily and combine the original offer with an offer of a  similar but different product in order to increase the number of hard negatives.
 
In addition, please also combine the resulting training set with the other training sets that you have so that we get an idea on how things improve if we use much more training data.
 
Aaron has also worked on knowledge distillation for entity matching in the meantime. You find his results in the following Arxiv paper - @thesis-docs/2606.28823v1.pdf
Please also compare your results to his results and send me a comparison table comparing your and Aarons results. Please note that Aaron uses the WDC Products unseen test set. Thus, his WDC results are lower than yours and he requires much more training data in order to achieve improvements.
 
What is your timeline for submitting the thesis? Are you still planning to submit on July 31st?
 
If this is the case, you should soon move from experiments to writing things down. Please make sure that in addition to the description of your experiments, your thesis also contains a decent size section covering related work and that you at the end of your thesis compare your results to the DistilER and Aaron’s results in detail. Please also think about using the distillation terminology (teacher model, student model) in your thesis.
